Release 25.1 changelog (#542)
seqeralabs/docs: changelog/seqera-enterprise/v25.1.mdx

---
title: Seqera Enterprise v25.1
date: 2025-04-09
tags: [seqera enterprise]
---

Seqera Platform Enterprise version 25.1 introduces Studios GA and a number of bug fixes and performance enhancements.

> Studios is Seqera's in-platform tool for secure, on-demand, interactive data analysis using containers created from Seqera-managed container template images or  your own organization managed custom environments. You only pay for the compute your Studio sessions consume and the compute is adjacent to your data, significantly reducing data transfer costs and wasted time copying data from storage to analysis. This significantly reduces infrastructure management requirements, removes data silos, adheres to strict in-platform role-based access control, and lowers your operational costs. Learn more about Studios in our [documentation](../../platform/latest/studios/index.mdx)

Author: ```suggestion
Studios is Seqera's in-platform tool for secure, on-demand, interactive data analysis using containers created from Seqera-managed container template images or your own organization-managed custom environments. You only pay for the compute your Studio sessions consume and the compute is adjacent to your data, significantly reducing data transfer costs and wasted time copying data from storage to analysis. 

This, in turn, significantly reduces infrastructure management requirements, removes data silos, adheres to strict in-platform role-based access control, and lowers your operational costs. Learn more about Studios in our [documentation](../../platform/latest/studios/index.mdx)
```

Author: @robnewman, I'm leaving both instances of "significantly" for now but will mull over a possible replacement for one of them today.

> Studios is Seqera's in-platform tool for secure, on-demand, interactive data analysis using containers created from Seqera-managed container template images or  your own organization managed custom environments. You only pay for the compute your Studio sessions consume and the compute is adjacent to your data, significantly reducing data transfer costs and wasted time copying data from storage to analysis. This significantly reduces infrastructure management requirements, removes data silos, adheres to strict in-platform role-based access control, and lowers your operational costs. Learn more about Studios in our [documentation](../../platform/latest/studios/index.mdx)

Reviewer: ```suggestion
Studios is Seqera's in-platform tool for secure, on-demand, interactive data analysis using containers created from Seqera-managed container template images or your own organization managed custom environments. You only pay for the compute your Studio sessions consume and the compute is adjacent to your data, significantly reducing data transfer costs and wasted time copying data from storage to analysis. This significantly reduces infrastructure management requirements, removes data silos, adheres to strict in-platform role-based access control, and lowers your operational costs. Learn more about Studios in our [documentation](../../platform/latest/studios/index.mdx)
```

## New features and improvements

### Studios

- **Labeled templates**: Labels indicate the status of support (`Recommended` or `Deprecated`) for a Seqera-managed Studio container template version. Users can migrate a Studio to a new base container template when **Adding as new**.
- **Private Studios**: When adding a new Studio, the number of concurrent connections (private vs. all workspace members) can now be defined in **General Config > Collaboration**.
- **Custom Studio session lifespans**: This new feature allows you to set a maximum lifespan for a session, after which time the session is stopped automatically and a checkpoint created, or the session can be extended on-demand.

> - **Studios resource labels support**: Workspace maintainer role and above users can manage the resource labels inherited from the compute environment and attached to the Studio. Resource labels attached to each Studio don’t affect the default resource labels associated with the compute environment.

Reviewer: What does "and above users" mean?

### Fusion

- AWS Batch compute environments default to Amazon Linux 2023 AMI when Fusion v2 is enabled.
- Add support for Fusion licensing.

### General

- Updated list of EC2 families with NVMe disk available 
- Audit log update: Pipeline edit events are now logged.
- Switch AWS Batch compute environment dependencies to AWS SDK v2.
- Switch Compute dependencies to AWS SDK v2.
- Support image upload in the pipeline import and pipeline update forms, to be used as pipeline logos.
- New dynamic page title for easy bookmarking.
- Added `totalProcesses` to workflow progress responses.
- Implement collapsible view for JSON workflow parameters tab and add **View as YAML** option.
- Update the pipeline name regular expression to allow pipeline names containing dots ('.').
- Extend zombie jobs detection on all workflows reaching one of the terminal states (`SUCCEEDED`, `FAILED`, `CANCELLED`).
- Allow Nextflow configuration parameters with embedded references to other parameters to be shown verbatim.

> - Improved error messaging when pipeline info can't be fetched indicates whether the issue is due to a missing resource, or failed authentication due to expired credentials.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
- Improved error messaging when pipeline information can't be fetched indicates whether the issue is due to a missing resource, or failed authentication due to expired credentials.
```

- Azure jobs are now automatically terminated after all tasks are complete.
- Send only added/updated run parameters when launching a pipeline. This includes all defaults and parameters passed during the launch.
- Allow users to remove organization logo.
- New workflow job monitoring collects and publishes Platform metrics.
- Notify the user when secrets cleanup fails.
- Dashboard page: Add a date filter. 

> - Bump nextflow to version 24.10.3
> - Upgrade to Angular 18

Reviewer: ```suggestion
- Bump nextflow to version 24.10.3.
- Upgrade to Angular 18.
```

## Bug fixes

- Studios

>   - Fixed a bug where resource labels were erroneously editable for the maintain role when starting an existing Studio.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
  - Fixed a bug where resource labels were erroneously editable for the Maintain role when starting an existing Studio.
```

>   - Fixed an issue to ensure that the Maintain role is not able to change resource labels inherited from the selected compute environment when adding/starting a Studio.

Reviewer: The above was maintain role, this is Maintain role

  - Fixed an issue with searches for names containing special SQL wildcard characters (_, %).

> - Prohibit duplicate Git credentials and tie-break on `lastUpdated` for existing duplicates. Going forward, preference is given to the credentials updated last in the situation when there are multiple candidates. Additionally a duplicate check is added when creating new credentials, to avoid new duplicate cases.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
- Prohibit duplicate Git credentials and tie-break on `lastUpdated` for existing duplicates. Going forward, preference is given to the credentials updated last in the situation when there are multiple candidates. Additionally, a duplicate check is added when creating new credentials to avoid new duplicate cases.
```

- Fallback to primary compute environment when launching a shared pipeline without an associated compute environment from a private workspace.

## Breaking changes and warnings

### Seqera AWS ECR repository customer access ends June 1, 2025

Customers will no longer be able to pull Seqera Enterprise container images from the legacy Seqera AWS ECR repository after June 1, 2025. All Seqera Enterprise images must be retrieved via the `cr.seqera.io` container registry after this cutoff date. The installation and configuration templates provided for both [Docker Compose](https://docs.seqera.io/platform/24.2/enterprise/docker-compose) and [Kubernetes](https://docs.seqera.io/platform/24.2/enterprise/kubernetes) installations already reference the `cr.seqera.io` container image URLs. If you have not yet transitioned to this registry, [contact Support](https://support.seqera.io) to request credentials and for any further assistance. 

See [Legacy Seqera container image registries](https://docs.seqera.io/platform/25.1/enterprise/advanced-topics/seqera-container-images) for more information on the AWS ECR and other deprecated Seqera container registries. 

### Redis version change

> From v24.2 of Seqera Enterprise: 
> 
> - Redis version 6.2 or greater is required.
> - Redis version 7 is officially supported.
> 
> ### Redisson properties deprecated
> 
> From v24.2 of Seqera Platform, `redisson.*` configuration properties are deprecated. If you have set `redisson.*` properties directly previously, do the following:

Reviewer: ```suggestion
From 24.2 of Seqera Enterprise: 

- Redis version 6.2 or greater is required.
- Redis version 7 is officially supported.

### Redisson properties deprecated

From 24.2 of Seqera Platform, `redisson.*` configuration properties are deprecated. If you have set `redisson.*` properties directly previously, do the following:
```

:::

### MariaDB driver: New MySQL connection parameter required

MariaDB driver 3.x requires a special parameter in the connection URL to connect to a MySQL database:

`jdbc:mysql://<domain>:<port>/tower?permitMysqlScheme=true`

All deployments using a MySQL database (regardless of version: 5.6, 5.7, or 8) should be updated accordingly when upgrading to Platform version 24.1 or later.

### MariaDB driver: No truncation support for MySQL 5.6

The MariaDB driver has dropped support for the `jdbcCompliantTruncation` parameter, which was true by default and set the `STRICT_TRANS_TABLES` SQL mode. The `STRICT_TRANS_TABLES` mode produces an error when the value of a VARCHAR column exceeds its limit, instead of truncating it to fit. Most common installations of MySQL 5.7 and 8 already include this mode at the server level, but the Docker container version of MySQL 5.6 does not.

The SQL mode must be set explicitly through the connection URL for deployments still using MySQL 5.6:

`jdbc:mysql://<domain>:<port>/tower?permitMysqlScheme=true&sessionVariables=sql_mode='STRICT_TRANS_TABLES,NO_ENGINE_SUBSTITUTION'`

### Micronaut property key changes

> The property that determines the expiration time of the JWT access token (used for authenticating web sessions and Nextflow-Platform interactions) has changed as of Seqera Platform v24.1:

Reviewer: ```suggestion
The property that determines the expiration time of the JWT access token (used for authenticating web sessions and Nextflow-Platform interactions) has changed as of Seqera Platform 24.1:
```

| Previous                                                         | New                                                          |
| ---------------------------------------------------------------- | ------------------------------------------------------------ |
| `micronaut.security.token.jwt.generator.access-token.expiration` | `micronaut.security.token.generator.access-token.expiration` |
	
Enterprise deployments that have customized this value previously will need to adopt the new format.

> ## Upgrade steps 

Reviewer: Is this needed?

- **Private Studios**: When adding a new Studio, the number of concurrent connections (private vs. all workspace members) can now be defined in **General Config > Collaboration**.
- **Custom Studio session lifespans**: This new feature allows you to set a maximum lifespan for a session, after which time the session is stopped automatically and a checkpoint created, or the session can be extended on-demand.
- **Studios resource labels support**: Workspace maintainer role and above users can manage the resource labels inherited from the compute environment and attached to the Studio. Resource labels attached to each Studio don’t affect the default resource labels associated with the compute environment.

### Fusion

- AWS Batch compute environments default to Amazon Linux 2023 AMI when Fusion v2 is enabled.
- Add support for Fusion licensing.

### General

- Updated list of EC2 families with NVMe disk available 
- Audit log update: Pipeline edit events are now logged.
- Switch AWS Batch compute environment dependencies to AWS SDK v2.
- Switch Compute dependencies to AWS SDK v2.

> - Support image upload in the pipeline import and pipeline update forms, to be used as pipeline logos.

Reviewer 2: As far as I'm aware we'll also be releasing the automatic usage of repository organisation icons and nextflow config defined manifest icons.
Maybe something like this:

On addition or update of a GitHub pipeline, if no user uploaded icon is defined, the icon will default to that defined in the manifest.icon nextflow config, else will use the GitHub organisation avatar.

- Compute environment creation form allows pre- and post-run scripts to be longer than the accepted value of 1024 characters.
- Disable reset selection on data change in workflow list component.
- Take into account the alternative `mainScript` path.
- Use `preferred_username` as fallback email field for OIDC login.
- Drop the last characters in job definition name, if longer than the prescribed limit.
- Fixed an issue where users were not able to remove the organization logo.
- Fixed an additional reference to the `mainScript` parameter in the `pipeline-info` API response.
- Fixes a problem with Entra and `javax.mail` transitive dependency.
- A change in the nf-core tools template made config profile search in the pipeline launch form inconsistent in Platform as it's prepended by a ternary operator. This release introduces a fix that improves config profile name parsing.
- Do not fetch info for `INVALID` status pipelines, fetch for all other statuses including `DISABLED`.
- Fallback to primary compute environment when launching a shared pipeline without an associated compute environment from a private workspace.

> ## Breaking changes and warnings

Author: @swampie, when we say "in between migration" is there a specific step of the migration at which point this needs to be done?

> ## Breaking changes and warnings

Reviewer 3: when modifying the manifests they should check for the MICRONAUT_ENV and change accordingly

---
title: Seqera Enterprise v25.1
date: 2025-04-09
tags: [seqera enterprise]
---

Seqera Platform Enterprise version 25.1 introduces Studios GA and a number of bug fixes and performance enhancements.

> Studios is Seqera's in-platform tool for secure, on-demand, interactive data analysis using containers created from Seqera-managed container template images or your own organization managed custom environments. You only pay for the compute your Studio sessions consume and the compute is adjacent to your data, significantly reducing data transfer costs and wasted time copying data from storage to analysis. This significantly reduces infrastructure management requirements, removes data silos, adheres to strict in-platform role-based access control, and lowers your operational costs. Learn more about Studios in our [documentation](https://docs.seqera.io/platform-enterprise/latest/studios)

Reviewer 4: ```suggestion
Studios is Seqera's in-platform tool for secure, on-demand, interactive data analysis using containers created from Seqera-managed container template images or your own organization-managed custom environments. You only pay for the compute your Studio sessions consume, and the compute is adjacent to your data, significantly reducing data transfer costs and wasted time copying data from storage to analysis. This significantly reduces infrastructure management requirements, removes data silos, adheres to strict in-platform role-based access control, and lowers your operational costs. [Learn more about Studios](https://docs.seqera.io/platform-enterprise/latest/studios)
```

## New features and improvements

### Studios

- **Labeled templates**: Labels indicate the status of support (`recommended` or `deprecated`) for a Seqera-managed Studio container template version. Users can migrate a Studio to a new base container template when **Adding as new**.

> - **[Private Studios](https://docs.seqera.io/platform-enterprise/latest/studios/managing#general-config)**: When adding a new Studio, the number of concurrent connections (private vs. all workspace members) can now be defined in **General Config > Collaboration**.

Reviewer 5: ```suggestion
- **[Private sessions](https://docs.seqera.io/platform-enterprise/latest/studios/managing#general-config)**: When adding a new Studio, the number of concurrent connections (private vs. all workspace members) can now be defined in **General Config > Collaboration**.
```

Reviewer 5: Privacy refers to the session itself (i.e. who can connect to it), not the Studio.

> - **[Custom Studio session lifespans](https://docs.seqera.io/platform-enterprise/latest/studios/managing#modify-session-lifespan-for-all-studios)**: This new feature allows you to set a maximum lifespan for a session, after which time the session is stopped automatically and a checkpoint created, or the session can be extended on-demand.

Reviewer 5: ```suggestion
- **[Custom session lifespans](https://docs.seqera.io/platform-enterprise/latest/studios/managing#modify-session-lifespan-for-all-studios)**: This new feature allows you to set a maximum lifespan for a session, after which time the session is stopped automatically and a checkpoint created, or the session can be extended on-demand.
```

Reviewer 5: We're already in the Studios section of the docs, we don't need to specify it again.

- **Resource labels**: Users with at least workspace maintainer role permissions can manage the resource labels inherited from the compute environment and attached to the Studio. Resource labels attached to each Studio don’t affect the default resource labels associated with the compute environment.

### Fusion

- AWS Batch compute environments default to Amazon Linux 2023 AMI when Fusion v2 is enabled.
- Add support for Fusion licensing.

### General

> - Updated list of EC2 families with NVMe disk available 

Reviewer 4: ```suggestion
- Updated list of EC2 families with NVMe disks available 
```

- Audit log update: Pipeline edit events are now logged.
- Switch AWS Batch compute environment dependencies to AWS SDK v2.
- Switch Compute dependencies to AWS SDK v2.

> - When a GitHub pipeline is added or updated, if no user-uploaded icon is defined, the icon will default to the one defined the `manifest.icon` Nextflow config; otherwise, it will use the GitHub organization avatar. You can also upload custom icons, which take priority over the auto fetched ones.

Reviewer 4: ```suggestion
- You can now upload custom icons when adding or updating a GitHub pipeline. If no user-uploaded icon is defined, the icon defined in the `manifest.icon` Nextflow config field is used by default. Otherwise, the GitHub organization avatar is used.
```

- New dynamic page title for easy bookmarking.
- Added `totalProcesses` to workflow progress responses.
- Implement collapsible view for JSON workflow parameters tab and add **View as YAML** option.
- Update the pipeline name regular expression to allow pipeline names containing dots ('.').
- Allow Nextflow configuration parameters with embedded references to other parameters to be shown verbatim.
- Improved error messaging when pipeline information can't be fetched indicates whether the issue is due to a missing resource, or failed authentication due to expired credentials.
- Azure jobs are now automatically terminated after all tasks are complete.
- Send only added/updated run parameters when launching a pipeline. This includes all defaults and parameters passed during the launch.

> - Allow users to remove organization logo.

Reviewer 4: ```suggestion
- Allow users to remove organization logos.
```

- New workflow job monitoring collects and publishes Platform metrics.
- Notify the user when secrets cleanup fails.
- Dashboard page: Add a date filter. 
- Bump nf-launcher default to version 25.10.5.
- Upgrade to Angular 18.

## Bug fixes

- **Studios**
  - Fixed resource labels being erroneously non-editable for the Maintain role when adding or starting a Studio session.
  - Fixed searches for names containing special SQL wildcard characters (_, %).

> - Prohibit duplicate Git credentials and tie-break on `lastUpdated` for existing duplicates. Going forward, preference is given to the credentials updated last in the situation when there are multiple candidates. Additionally, a duplicate check is added when creating new credentials to avoid new duplicate cases.

Reviewer 4: ```suggestion
- Prohibit duplicate Git credentials and tie-break on `lastUpdated` for existing duplicates. Preference is given to the last-updated credentials when there are multiple candidates. A check is also added to avoid duplicates when creating new credentials.
```

> - Set `ECS_CONTAINER_START_TIMEOUT` to 10 minutes in the ECS settings used by AWS Batch CEs in order to prevent the error `Task failed to start - DockerTimeoutError: Could not transition to started; timed out after waiting 3m0s`.

Reviewer 4: ```suggestion
- Set `ECS_CONTAINER_START_TIMEOUT` to 10 minutes in the ECS settings used by AWS Batch CEs, to prevent `Task failed to start - DockerTimeoutError: Could not transition to started; timed out after waiting 3m0s` errors.
```

- Compute environment creation form allows pre- and post-run scripts to be longer than the accepted value of 1024 characters.
- Disable reset selection on data change in workflow list component.
- Take into account the alternative `mainScript` path.
- Use `preferred_username` as fallback email field for OIDC login.

> - Drop the last characters in job definition name, if longer than the prescribed limit.

Reviewer 4: ```suggestion
- Drop the last characters in job definition names longer than the prescribed limit.
```

> - Fixed users not being able to remove the organization logo.

Reviewer 4: ```suggestion
```
We label this as both a feature under General and as a bug fix. I suggest we remove it from bug fixes.

- Fixed an additional reference to the `mainScript` parameter in the `pipeline-info` API response.
- Fixed a problem with Entra and `javax.mail` transitive dependency.
- A change in the nf-core tools template made config profile search in the pipeline launch form inconsistent in Platform as it's prepended by a ternary operator. This release introduces a fix that improves config profile name parsing.
- Do not fetch info for `INVALID` status pipelines, fetch for all other statuses including `DISABLED`.
- Fallback to primary compute environment when launching a shared pipeline without an associated compute environment from a private workspace.
- Fixed regression of the quick launch form not selecting the primary compute environment by default.

## Breaking changes and warnings

### OIDC Secrets injection modifications

> The `auth-oidc-secrets` Micronaut environment has now been replaced with `oidc-token-import` naming. If you are using this configuration, the change should be applied to the `MICRONAUT_ENV` environment variable in the manifest, during the migration proces. If you activate the feature using the `TOWER_OIDC_TOKEN_IMPORT` environment variable then no changes are needed.

Reviewer 4: ```suggestion
The `auth-oidc-secrets` Micronaut environment has been replaced with `oidc-token-import`. If you use this configuration, you must change the `MICRONAUT_ENV` environment variable in the manifest during the migration process. If you activate the feature with the `TOWER_OIDC_TOKEN_IMPORT` environment variable, no changes are needed.
```

### Seqera AWS ECR repository customer access ends June 1, 2025

> Customers will no longer be able to pull Seqera Enterprise container images from the legacy Seqera AWS ECR repository after June 1, 2025. All Seqera Enterprise images must be retrieved via the `cr.seqera.io` container registry after this cutoff date. The installation and configuration templates provided for both [Docker Compose](https://docs.seqera.io/platform-enterprise/24.2/enterprise/docker-compose) and [Kubernetes](https://docs.seqera.io/platform-enterprise/24.2/enterprise/kubernetes) installations already reference the `cr.seqera.io` container image URLs. If you have not yet transitioned to this registry, [contact Support](https://support.seqera.io) to request credentials and for any further assistance. 

Reviewer 4: ```suggestion
Customers will no longer be able to pull Seqera Enterprise container images from the legacy Seqera AWS ECR repository after June 1, 2025. All Seqera Enterprise images must be retrieved via the `cr.seqera.io` container registry after this cutoff date. The installation and configuration templates provided for both [Docker Compose](https://docs.seqera.io/platform-enterprise/25.1/enterprise/docker-compose) and [Kubernetes](https://docs.seqera.io/platform-enterprise/25.1/enterprise/kubernetes) installations already reference the `cr.seqera.io` container image URLs. If you have not yet transitioned to this registry, [contact Support](https://support.seqera.io) to request credentials and for any further assistance. 
```

See [Legacy Seqera container image registries](https://docs.seqera.io/platform/25.1/platform-enterprise/advanced-topics/seqera-container-images) for more information on the AWS ECR and other deprecated Seqera container registries. 

### Redis version change

> From 24.2 of Seqera Enterprise: 

Reviewer 4: ```suggestion
From Seqera Enterprise version 24.2: 
```

- Redis version 6.2 or greater is required.
- Redis version 7 is officially supported.

### Redisson properties deprecated

> From 24.2 of Seqera Platform, `redisson.*` configuration properties are deprecated. If you have set `redisson.*` properties directly previously, do the following:

Reviewer 4: ```suggestion
From Seqera Enterprise version 24.2, `redisson.*` configuration properties are deprecated. If you have set `redisson.*` properties directly previously, do the following:
```

- Replace `/redisson/*` references in AWS Parameter Store entries with `TOWER_REDIS_*`. 
- Replace `redisson.*` references in `tower.yml` with `TOWER_REDIS_*`. 

:::note
Set `TOWER_REDIS_*` values directly in the `tower.yml` or AWS Parameter Store entry (for example, `TOWER_REDIS_URL: redis://...`).
:::

### MariaDB driver: New MySQL connection parameter required

MariaDB driver 3.x requires a special parameter in the connection URL to connect to a MySQL database:

`jdbc:mysql://<domain>:<port>/tower?permitMysqlScheme=true`

> All deployments using a MySQL database (regardless of version: 5.6, 5.7, or 8) should be updated accordingly when upgrading to Platform version 24.1 or later.

Reviewer 4: ```suggestion
All deployments using a MySQL database (regardless of version: 5.6, 5.7, or 8) must be updated when upgrading to Seqera Enterprise version 24.1 or later.
```

### MariaDB driver: No truncation support for MySQL 5.6

The MariaDB driver has dropped support for the `jdbcCompliantTruncation` parameter, which was true by default and set the `STRICT_TRANS_TABLES` SQL mode. The `STRICT_TRANS_TABLES` mode produces an error when the value of a VARCHAR column exceeds its limit, instead of truncating it to fit. Most common installations of MySQL 5.7 and 8 already include this mode at the server level, but the Docker container version of MySQL 5.6 does not.

The SQL mode must be set explicitly through the connection URL for deployments still using MySQL 5.6:

`jdbc:mysql://<domain>:<port>/tower?permitMysqlScheme=true&sessionVariables=sql_mode='STRICT_TRANS_TABLES,NO_ENGINE_SUBSTITUTION'`

### Micronaut property key changes

> The property that determines the expiration time of the JWT access token (used for authenticating web sessions and Nextflow-Platform interactions) has changed as of Seqera Platform 24.1:

Reviewer 4: ```suggestion
The property that determines the expiration time of the JWT access token (used for authenticating web sessions and Nextflow-Platform interactions) has changed as of Seqera Enterprise version 24.1:
```

- New dynamic page title for easy bookmarking.
- Added `totalProcesses` to workflow progress responses.
- Implement collapsible view for JSON workflow parameters tab and add **View as YAML** option.
- Update the pipeline name regular expression to allow pipeline names containing dots ('.').
- Allow Nextflow configuration parameters with embedded references to other parameters to be shown verbatim.
- Improved error messaging when pipeline information can't be fetched indicates whether the issue is due to a missing resource, or failed authentication due to expired credentials.
- Azure jobs are now automatically terminated after all tasks are complete.
- Send only added/updated run parameters when launching a pipeline. This includes all defaults and parameters passed during the launch.
- Allow users to remove organization logo.
- New workflow job monitoring collects and publishes Platform metrics.
- Notify the user when secrets cleanup fails.
- Dashboard page: Add a date filter. 
- Bump nf-launcher default to version 25.10.5.
- Upgrade to Angular 18.

> ## Bug fixes

Reviewer 5: ```suggestion
## Fixes
```

- **Studios**

>   - Fixed a bug where resource labels were erroneously editable for the Maintain role when starting an existing Studio.

Reviewer 5: ```suggestion
  - Fixed resource labels being erroneously non-editable for the Maintain role when adding or starting a Studio session.
```

>   - Fixed an issue to ensure that the Maintain role is not able to change resource labels inherited from the selected compute environment when adding/starting a Studio.

Reviewer 5: ```suggestion
```

>   - Fixed an issue with searches for names containing special SQL wildcard characters (_, %).

Reviewer 5: ```suggestion
  - Fixed searches for names containing special SQL wildcard characters (_, %).
```

- Prohibit duplicate Git credentials and tie-break on `lastUpdated` for existing duplicates. Going forward, preference is given to the credentials updated last in the situation when there are multiple candidates. Additionally, a duplicate check is added when creating new credentials to avoid new duplicate cases.
- Set `ECS_CONTAINER_START_TIMEOUT` to 10 minutes in the ECS settings used by AWS Batch CEs in order to prevent the error `Task failed to start - DockerTimeoutError: Could not transition to started; timed out after waiting 3m0s`.
- Compute environment creation form allows pre- and post-run scripts to be longer than the accepted value of 1024 characters.
- Disable reset selection on data change in workflow list component.
- Take into account the alternative `mainScript` path.
- Use `preferred_username` as fallback email field for OIDC login.
- Drop the last characters in job definition name, if longer than the prescribed limit.

> - Fixed an issue where users were not able to remove the organization logo.

Reviewer 5: ```suggestion
- Fixed users not being able to remove the organization logo.
```

- Fixed an additional reference to the `mainScript` parameter in the `pipeline-info` API response.
- Fixed a problem with Entra and `javax.mail` transitive dependency.
- A change in the nf-core tools template made config profile search in the pipeline launch form inconsistent in Platform as it's prepended by a ternary operator. This release introduces a fix that improves config profile name parsing.
- Do not fetch info for `INVALID` status pipelines, fetch for all other statuses including `DISABLED`.
- Fallback to primary compute environment when launching a shared pipeline without an associated compute environment from a private workspace.

> - Fixed an issue where the new Launch Form did not select the primary compute environment by default; now a primary compute environment is selected during quick launch.

Reviewer 5: ```suggestion
- Fixed regression of the quick launch form not selecting the primary compute environment by default.
```

- **Private Studios**: When adding a new Studio, the number of concurrent connections (private vs. all workspace members) can now be defined in **General Config > Collaboration**.
- **Custom Studio session lifespans**: This new feature allows you to set a maximum lifespan for a session, after which time the session is stopped automatically and a checkpoint created, or the session can be extended on-demand.
- **Studios resource labels support**: Workspace maintainer role and above users can manage the resource labels inherited from the compute environment and attached to the Studio. Resource labels attached to each Studio don’t affect the default resource labels associated with the compute environment.

### Fusion

- AWS Batch compute environments default to Amazon Linux 2023 AMI when Fusion v2 is enabled.
- Add support for Fusion licensing.

### General

- Updated list of EC2 families with NVMe disk available 
- Audit log update: Pipeline edit events are now logged.
- Switch AWS Batch compute environment dependencies to AWS SDK v2.
- Switch Compute dependencies to AWS SDK v2.

> When a GitHub pipeline is added or updated, if no user-uploaded icon is defined, the icon will default to the one defined the `manifest.icon` Nextflow config; otherwise, it will use the GitHub organization avatar.

Reviewer 3: also we should add that is also possible to upload custom icons (which will have priority on top of the auto fetched ones)

- New dynamic page title for easy bookmarking.
- Added `totalProcesses` to workflow progress responses.
- Implement collapsible view for JSON workflow parameters tab and add **View as YAML** option.
- Update the pipeline name regular expression to allow pipeline names containing dots ('.').

> - Extend zombie jobs detection on all workflows reaching one of the terminal states (`SUCCEEDED`, `FAILED`, `CANCELLED`).

Reviewer 3: this is not enabled in enterprise yet: please remove

- Allow Nextflow configuration parameters with embedded references to other parameters to be shown verbatim.
- Improved error messaging when pipeline information can't be fetched indicates whether the issue is due to a missing resource, or failed authentication due to expired credentials.
- Azure jobs are now automatically terminated after all tasks are complete.
- Send only added/updated run parameters when launching a pipeline. This includes all defaults and parameters passed during the launch.

> - Allow users to remove organization logo.

Reviewer 3: this should go in bug fixes

The SQL mode must be set explicitly through the connection URL for deployments still using MySQL 5.6:

`jdbc:mysql://<domain>:<port>/tower?permitMysqlScheme=true&sessionVariables=sql_mode='STRICT_TRANS_TABLES,NO_ENGINE_SUBSTITUTION'`

### Micronaut property key changes

The property that determines the expiration time of the JWT access token (used for authenticating web sessions and Nextflow-Platform interactions) has changed as of Seqera Platform 24.1:

| Previous                                                         | New                                                          |
| ---------------------------------------------------------------- | ------------------------------------------------------------ |
| `micronaut.security.token.jwt.generator.access-token.expiration` | `micronaut.security.token.generator.access-token.expiration` |
	
Enterprise deployments that have customized this value previously will need to adopt the new format.

> ## Upgrade steps 

Author: @markpanganiban, this is the section that needs validation. Thank you!
